# nf-core/sicilian: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline. Most of the plots are taken from the MultiQC report, which summarises results at the end of the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

<!-- TODO nf-core: Write this documentation describing your workflow's output -->

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/)
and processes data using the following steps:

* [FastQC](#fastqc) - Read quality control
* [MultiQC](#multiqc) - Aggregate report describing results from the whole pipeline
* [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

## UMI-tools

[UMI-tools](https://github.com/CGATOxford/UMI-tools) contains tools for dealing with Unique Molecular Identifiers (UMIs)/Random Molecular Tags (RMTs) and single cell RNA-Seq cell barcodes. Two commands are used here: `whitelist` and `extract`.

For further reading and documentation see the [UMI-tools help pages](https://umi-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

### Whitelist

This command Builds a whitelist of the 'real' cell barcodes.
This is useful for droplet-based single cell RNA-Seq where the identity of the true cell barcodes is unknown. Whitelist can then be used to filter with extract.

### Extract

Flexible removal of UMI sequences from fastq reads.
UMIs are removed and appended to the read name. Any other barcode, for example a library barcode, is left on the read. Can also filter reads by quality or against a whitelist (see above)

**Output files:**

* `umitools/whitelist`
  * `*_whitelist.txt`: Whitelist of true cell barcodes
* `umitools/logs/`
  * `*.log`: Logged output of `umi_tools whitelist`
* `umitools/cell_thresholds/`
  * `*.tsv`: TODO
* `umitools/plots/`
  * `*_cell_barcode_counts.png`: TODO
  * `*_cell_barcode_knee.png`: TODO

## MultiQC

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarizing all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability.

For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see [https://multiqc.info](https://multiqc.info).

**Output files:**

* `multiqc/`
  * `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
  * `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
  * `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

## Pipeline information

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.

**Output files:**

* `pipeline_info/`
  * Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  * Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.csv`.
  * Documentation for interpretation of results in HTML format: `results_description.html`.
